content/projects/ecobox.md, before:

+++
title = 'a pill topper schematic for people with tremors'
date = 2023-11-20T21:27:10-08:00
draft = false

+++

COVID began and I was living at home for most of 2020. My dad had suffered a heart attack at the end of 2019 and was just starting to get used to his pill routine (well, my mom took a pretty active role in making sure he didn't skip or forget about any of his meds).

I kept noticing my dad would drop his pills, strain to reach down and pick up the small pieces, and try to put the pills back (which would cause him to drop some more). With a bad back and hip, this infuriated me. The pills are so small and easy to swallow he can't get the right amount out! I wanted my dad to flip his bottle over and get the exact amount of pills he needed right into his hand.

I built a bottle topper that poured the right amount of pills per shake, preventing him from having to reach down and hurt his back anymore. After trying various designs, modeling for the fall rate, and interviewing users with tremors, I made a paper version of the design and made it public for anyone to print & use.

![image-20231120215954073](C:\Users\nadav\AppData\Roaming\Typora\typora-user-images\image-20231120215954073.png)

![image-20231120220119069](C:\Users\nadav\AppData\Roaming\Typora\typora-user-images\image-20231120220119069.png)

![image-20231120220421170](C:\Users\nadav\AppData\Roaming\Typora\typora-user-images\image-20231120220421170.png)

![image-20231120220452811](C:\Users\nadav\AppData\Roaming\Typora\typora-user-images\image-20231120220452811.png)

![I designed the models in SolidWorks and used global variables to produce different caps for different pill bottle and pill sizes](/projects/pills/pill_dimensions.png)

![I used a 3D pen to make changes to 3D printed models, saving model time & plastic for medium-fidelity trials](/projects/pills/pill_pen.png)

![a lego-inspired printout for anyone to make their own pill topper for the BRILINTA medication](/projects/pills/pill_lego.png)

Commit message:

First draft with minor changes left

content/projects/ecobox.md, after:

+++
title = 'a home goods service for sustainable products'
date = 2023-11-20T21:27:10-08:00
draft = false

+++

As roommates in college, my house would stop at Costco twice a month to get the cheapest home goods we could find. They weren't sustainable and they weren't all that cheap, and other houses without Costco memberships or space to hold that many home goods were paying more for less.

I wanted to find a way to support those living in Isla Vista with a better way to shop sustainably for their home goods. I spoke with households nearby (both college students and families) to learn what their current issues were and if they'd consider alternatives. 

People liked the idea of shopping more sustainably, but didn't have time to do the research. They didn't want to spend lots of money on poor quality products. And they didn't know what their options were.

I created EcoBox, a home sustainability box that would ship to people's homes. I created a matrix to audit products for their sustainability score, then ship those products to my door and dole out the products to each house. Homes would get the amount they needed at a wholesale price, without going out to shop or deal with the sustainability research.

I closed EcoBox once classes picked up my senior year. 

### Takeaways
- Testimonials from real experiences go a long way at converting new users.
- Quantitative surveys are prone to bias, but user behaviors are an okay method at gauging future behavior. It's important to craft previous data with rationale to build the full story.
- When you believe in an idea, it's on you to be the spokesperson and demonstrate it's potential. Nobody will market it for you until you show them it's safe to do so. 

![toilet paper being passed from nadav to another person.](/projects/ecobox/mk.png)
*i gave home goods out to families during the initial market fit tests.*

![a box of bamboo-based toilet paper and paper towels.](/projects/ecobox/box.png)
*i took wholesale-sized shipments and distributed them to household-sized boxes for college students to keep at home.*

![a stack of toilet paper.](/projects/ecobox/toilet.png)
*through the process, i fell in love with [whogivesacrap](https://us.whogivesacrap.org/), a bamboo-based home goods company. they scored highly for their work to avoid deforestation.*

![a stack of tissue paper boxes.](/projects/ecobox/tissues.png)
*whogivesacrap is a b-corp and donates profits to build toilets and clean water access around the world.*
